docs: app distribution page (#26239)
electron/electron: docs/tutorial/application-distribution.md

# Application Distribution

## Overview

To distribute your app with Electron, you need to package and rebrand it.
To do this, you can either use specialized tooling or manual approaches.

> ## With Tooling

Reviewer: I think on other rewritten docs, we've only capitalized the first letter in each header? Might want to change these for consistency.

You can use the following tools to distribute your application:

* [electron-forge](https://github.com/electron-userland/electron-forge)
* [electron-builder](https://github.com/electron-userland/electron-builder)
* [electron-packager](https://github.com/electron/electron-packager)

These tools will take care of all the steps you need to take to end up with a

> distributable Electron applications, such as packaging your application,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
distributable Electron application, such as packaging your application,
```

> rebranding the executable, setting the right icons and optionally creating installers.

Reviewer 2: Hmmm, technically speaking Electron Packager doesn't have any capability to create installers (which is why Forge exists...).

> You can check the example of how to package you app with `electron-forge` in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check the example of how to package your app with `electron-forge` in
```

└── index.html
```

Then execute `Electron.app` (`electron` on Linux, `electron.exe` on Windows),
and Electron will start as your app. The `electron` directory will then be
your distribution to deliver to users.

### With asar Archive

Apart from shipping your app by copying all of its source files, you can also
package your app into an [asar] archive to avoid exposing your app's source
code to users.

> To use an `asar` archive, you need to rename your `app` folder into `app.asar`,

Reviewer: I think the previous description was more accurate here. What happens here is that the `app` folder is first archived using `asar`, then the archive is renamed to `app.asar`.

and put it under Electron's resources directory like below, and Electron will
then try to read the archive and start from it.

*On macOS:*

```plaintext
electron/Electron.app/Contents/Resources/
└── app.asar
```

*On Windows and Linux:*

```plaintext
electron/resources/
└── app.asar
```

> More details on how to use `asar` you can find [here][asar].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find more details on how to use `asar` in the [electron/asar repository][asar].
```

└── index.html
```

Then execute `Electron.app` (`electron` on Linux, `electron.exe` on Windows),
and Electron will start as your app. The `electron` directory will then be
your distribution to deliver to users.

> ### With asar archive

Reviewer 2: Putting "asar" in the heading is kind of weird because no one knows what it is until they read the section. It's probably better to describe what it does instead

```suggestion
### With an app source code archive
```

> Apart from shipping your app by copying all of its source files, you can also

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead of shipping your app by copying all of its source files, you can
```

> package your app into an [asar] archive to avoid exposing your app's source
> code to users.

Reviewer 2: > to avoid exposing your app's source code to users.

I think we should avoid making this statement because it implies that asar prevents folks from being able to read an app's source code, which is definitely not true. Instead I would rewrite this to something like

```suggestion
package your app into an [asar] archive to improve the performance of reading files on platforms like Windows, if you are not already using a bundler such as Parcel or Webpack.
```

└── index.html
```

> Then execute `Electron.app` (`electron` on Linux, `electron.exe` on Windows),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then execute `Electron.app` on macOS, `electron` on Linux, or `electron.exe` on Windows,
```
